-- RAILTRACK MODELLING TOOLBOX v1 (8.2022)----

The Toolbox was developped to run on the CAELinux 2020 Linux distribution, based on Ubuntu 18.04.
It can however be adapted to run in other environments as long as the following prerequisites are installed and the paths are adapted to your installation.

--- Prerequisites---
To run the different models of the toolbox, you will need the following:
1) Python 2.7 with Numpy, PyQt5 and Pyperclip libraries, Python3-numpy & Python3-scipy, Python3-matplotlib
1) an installation of Salome-Meca 2019 for Linux (see www.code-aster.org). The default installation path (recommended) is /opt/SalomeMeca/. 
2) an installation of Code-Aster with MFront support. By default an installation of Code-Aster 14.6 is expected in /opt/aster. 
3) if you intend to convert mesh files from Abaqus format to Aster, you will also need CalculiX PrePost "cgx".
Its default path is set to "/opt/CLCX-caelinux64/bin/cgx2.12"

PLEASE READ dependencies.txt and installDependencies.sh for more details.

--- Download and Installation ---

Option 1: Download directly using the git command:

git clone https://github.com/jcugnoni-heig/RailTrackModellingToolbox.git

then 

cd RailTrackModellingToolbox
./setup.sh

(this scrip adapt all paths for the Code-Aster models and make sure that the all the installed directories and files can be written by the users)

Option 2: Download the archived Zip code from GitHub.com
then unzip the toolbox and run ./setup.sh in the toolbox root directory 

--- Setting the Model paths for your own installation ---
The Code-Aster models included in the toolbox use absolute paths to locate the different files, and thus you will need to adapt some files to match your installation.
Note also, that if you move a single model to another directory, there is in each folder containing the models a  "changePath.sh" script that you can run to update the file paths to match your current install.
Also some other scripts (".sh" extension) may contain harcoded paths, so make sure to review them and adapt them to your installation.


--- Note about customization / prerequisites --- 
a) If prerequisites are installed in a non default path, you will need to modify most of the shell scripts.
Run find -iname "*.sh" at the root of the toolbox to list the files that might need editing 
b) If you encounter problems running the models, please check / edit the options in the different .export files which are used to launch the Code-Aster jobs. You may need to edit the max memory, aster version and other settings there. Run find -iname "*.export" to list those files.

-- Tips ---

- Error in running Impulse model, mfront is not found -
If you have installed Code-Aster 14-6 from source as required for running the Impulse model, 
you might have issues when MFront needs to run to build the material constitutive law library.
This can be caused by the fact that Aster looks for an executeable named "mfront" but by default, it is named mfront-3.2.1 and located in /opt/aster/public/tfel-3.2.1/bin
To fix this issue, do the following:
cd /opt/aster/public/tfel-3.2.1/bin
sudo ln -s mfront-3.2.1 mfront

If mfront is located at another location, please also edit ImpulseModelGUI.sh to add mfront executable path to the PATH env variable




